---
title: OSPF
description: Open Shortest Path First - Link State Protocol
---

# Link State Protocol:
Dijrkstra Algorithmus, send information about directly connected links to all the routers in the network, multicast

</br>

# Theory:
AD of 110

multi Vendor

224.0.0.6 all non BDR and DR Routers

224.0.0.5 BDR und DR Routers


</br>

# Designated Router election:
1. Highest Ospf Priorität

2. Highest Ip Address active Loopback

3. Highest Ip Address active Interface

</br>

# Link State Advertisments:
**LSA Type 1**: Router LSA. Each router within the area will flood a type 1 router LSA within the area. In this LSA you will find a list with all the directly connected links of this router
 	  
<hr />

**LSA Type 2**: Network LSA. are generated by the DR and include all network information that is connected to the DR. They are only advertised in the area.

<hr />

**LSA Type 3**: Summary LSA. It is generated by the ABR and advertises routing entries outside the router in the area. When there are multiple ABRs, the cost is used to determine the route summary

<hr />

**LSA Type 4**: ASBR Summary It is generated by the ABR to broadcast the location of the ASBR

<br />

# OSPF States
**Down** = No information (hellos) has been received from this neighbor, but hello packets can still be sent to the neighbor in this state.

<hr />

**Attempt** = only valid for manually configured neighbors

<hr />

**2-way** = that bi-directional communication has been established between two routers. Bi-directional means that each router has seen the other's hello packet

<hr />

**Exstart** = Start of the actual process of exchanging link state information can start between the routers and their DR and BDR.

<hr />

**Exchange** = OSPF routers exchange database descriptor (DBD) packets. Database descriptors contain link-state advertisement (LSA) headers only and describe the contents of the entire link-state database

<hr />

**Loading** = the actual exchange of link state information occurs

<hr />

**Full** = is the state for adjacent routers that have fully synchronised databases.